English Transcript:
My biological mother later found out that my mother had never graduated from college and that my father had never graduated from high school. I didn't have a dorm room, so i slept on the floor in friends' rooms, i returned coke bottles for the 5 cent deposits to buy food with, and i would walk the 7 miles across town every sunday night to get one good meal a week at the hare krishna temple. If i had never dropped in on that single course in college, the mac would have never had multiple typefaces or proportionally spaced fonts. If i had never dropped out, i would have never dropped in on this calligraphy class, and personal computers might not have the wonderful typography that they do. I dropped out of reed college after the first 6 months, but then stayed around as a drop-in for another 18 months or so before i really quit. Truth be told i never graduated from college and this is the closest i've ever gotten to a college graduation. But i naively chose a college that was almost as expensive as stanford, and all of my working-class parents' savings were being spent on my college tuition. Again, you can't connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. She only relented a few months later when my parents promised that i would go to college. Of course it was impossible to connect the dots looking forward when i was in college. Because i had dropped out and didn't have to take the normal classes, i decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this. Let me give you one example: reed college at that time offered perhaps the best calligraphy instruction in the country. The minute i dropped out i could stop taking the required classes that didn't interest me, and begin dropping in on the ones that looked interesting. I had no idea what i wanted to do with my life and no idea how college was going to help me figure it out. And 17 years later i did go to college. She felt very strongly that i should be adopted by college graduates, so everything was all set for me to be adopted at birth by a lawyer and his wife. But ten years later, when we were designing the first macintosh computer, it all came back to me. Beleiveing that the dots will connect down the road will give you the confidence to follow your heart even when it leads you off the well worn path, and that will make all the difference It made an impression on me, and since then, for the past 33 years, i have looked in the mirror every morning and asked myself: if today were the last day of my life, would i want to do what i am about to do today?. During the next five years, i started a company named next, another company named pixar, and fell in love with an amazing woman who would become my wife. Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. Because almost everything all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. Even people who want to go to heaven don't want to die to get there. When i was 17, i read a quote that went something like: if you live each day as if it was your last, someday you'll most certainly be right. Remembering that you are going to die is the best way i know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose. It means to try to tell your kids everything you thought you'd have the next 10 years to tell them in just a few months. I was sedated, but my wife, who was there, told me that when they viewed the cells under a microscope the doctors started crying because it turned out to be a very rare form of pancreatic cancer that is curable with surgery. Remembering that i'll be dead soon is the most important tool i've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. I didn't see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me. I'm pretty sure none of this would have happened if i hadn't been fired from apple. Having lived through it, i can now say this to you with a bit more certainty than when death was a useful but purely intellectual concept: no one wants to die. The doctors told me this was almost certainly a type of cancer that is incurable, and that i should expect to live no longer than three to six months. My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctor's code for prepare to die. In a remarkable turn of events, apple bought next, i returned to apple, and the technology we developed at next is at the heart of apple's current renaissance. I didn't even know what a pancreas was. Later that evening i had a biopsy, where they stuck an endoscope down my throat, through my stomach and into my intestines, put a needle into my pancreas and got a few cells from the tumor Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. On the back cover of their final issue was a photograph of an early morning country road, the kind you might find yourself hitchhiking on if you were so adventurous. This was in the late 1960's, before personal computers and desktop publishing, so it was all made with typewriters, scissors, and polaroid cameras. Don't be trapped by dogma which is living with the results of other people's thinking. It was sort of like google in paperback form, 35 years before google came along: it was idealistic, overflowing with neat tools, and great notions. Stewart and his team put out several issues of the whole earth catalog, and then when it had run its course, they put out a final issue. Please visit us at stanfordedu please visit us at stanfordedu. Right now the new is you, but someday not too long from now, you will gradually become the old and be cleared away. Don't let the noise of others' opinions drown out your own inner voice.